Trustee spec here trustee Blackman is not with us yet. But
is expected shortly and trustee charriere is excused this
evening vice president quote here and president palum here.
We have a quorum
All righty. Um, do we have any changes to the agenda from
staff or from board members no changes from staff.
And if not, I'll take a motion to approve the agenda as
presented.
I'll move we approve the agenda.
Oh second all in favor.
I I
Carries unanimously, do we have I see no 1 in person for um
public comment. Do you have anyone online?
No 1 online then we have no comments for public or
public comment for closed session so then I will take a
motion to adjourn to closed session.
I'll move that we adjourn to closed session.
1 second all in favor. I I and we are be back.
About 6 p.m.
And we will see you then. Thank you.
And we're going to just go around here.
All righty. We are returning from closed session. Thank you.
Um, and then there is nothing to report out of closed
session tonight. So we will move on um to the Pledge of
Allegiance and I would like our student trustee, um,
trustee peswani to lead us in the pledge, please.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of
America and to the Republic for which it stands 1 nation
under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all.
All right. Thank you. And could you please also read our
district mission statement, of course Dublin Unified School
District will educate every student to become a lifelong
learner by providing a safe and supportive environment that
Fosters Collective responsibility for each Student Success.
All righty. Um and next I think we have some introduction
of some new leadership staff members that we officially
hired over the summer, but would like to welcome.
publicly today, so I see
Heather Campos coming to the podium
Thank you and good evening. It's always my sincere pleasure
to introduce new folks to our leadership team and you are
correct. We have 2 individuals that um were processed in
processed in the summertime, and now that we're back. We'd
like to introduce them to you in the public. I'd like to
begin by introducing Cindy ma new supervisor for Child
Nutrition Services Cindy come up and join me.
Cindy is our new supervisor of CNS at Dublin unified has a
strong background and as a registered dietitian
nutritionist and experience in managing cafeteria
operations and enhancing menu quality.
Cindy is poised to lead our District's nutrition programs
with Excellence her dedication to Children's Health and her
expertise will play a pivotal role in advancing. Our
District's commitment to nutritional excellence and I had
an opportunity to see this in action recently over at
Emerald and it was really fun. So I hope you'll join us in
welcoming Cindy to our community.
Thank you so much for this opportunity. I'm very excited to
be a part of the Town nutrition team here at Dublin unified
and make a difference. So, thank you all.
I can get it over there. Will you hang tight? We'll get
some photos. Okay?
And next it's really my pleasure to introduce you to
chiharu kitchens assistant principal new at our um Dublin
High School, and she'll be moving over to Emerald next
We want to welcome her to our team. We're super excited to
have you with a strong focus on equity and extensive
experience and special education and social emotional
learning to how to is dedicated to supporting all students.
Her background is a special education teacher and expertise
in social emotional learning uniquely qualify her to
enhance.
student and staff support
We believe in her commitment to a safe supportive
environment and it underscores her dedication to Dublin
unified's Mission, please join us in welcoming her to new
her her new role.
Good evening Board of Trustees superintendent Funk and
cabinet. Thank you so much for this opportunity. I'm so
excited to be here to support teachers staff students and
families. Today was the first day of uh School, uh students
came and I had a great time interacting with students and
and teachers and staff. So again, thank you so much for
this opportunity.
Yeah, bring it with you sure if you want.
All righty. Thank you. It's always fun to bring new people
on board, especially when they've already started and are
jumped right in on everything.
um next up
Sorry, I think is our student board member report.
Go ahead. So this past week there have been many events at
Dublin High School to prepare the students for the 24th
through 25 school year which started today.
Students had their registration on different days
throughout the past week and I personally volunteered at 2
of the days to help the DHS students get through
registration freshman registration was a collaborative
effort with freshmen mentors and Leadership students
working together to tour the Freshman around campus and
help them get settled and although we didn't have an
adviser for the leadership class. The ASB team did an
amazing job running the lock in event where students join
committees and bonded with those who will collaborate
collaborate with throughout the year overall. These events
have created an exciting.
Start to the school year leaving students excited for what's
ahead?
All righty. Thank you. Um, do we have a report from DTA?
All righty. I see.
Everyone coming up. Excellent.
Distinguished members of the Dublin Unified School District
Board of Trustees. My name is Brad Dube janeski, and it is
my honor to stand before you as the new president of the
dedicated diligent and enthusiastic members of the Dublin
Teachers Association.
Your work is our Board of Trustees provide the support DTA
members need to complete the r essential tasks.
Together we work each and every day to provide the best for
our students because they deserve the best each and every
day.
DTA members are committed to our partnership with all of
you in this Noble task to further our commitment to Student
Success DTA is proud to partner with the CTA Eastbay
Coalition for Student Success, which is an organization of
Educators to dedicated to promoting Student Success.
It has been my privilege and pleasure to spend my summer
months welcoming new DTA members to our district these new
members of our community bring with them and excitement and
enthusiasm to join our existing members as part of a
district that prioritizes Student Success.
Our community calls upon us all to prioritize our students
learning and success. Our members have Myriad ideas to
reach those goals for all students. That is why we invite
each and every 1 of you to come speak with our members in
schools at our deta representative council meetings or at
any other opportunity that presents itself. We know that
when we dialogue about prioritizing teaching and learning
we find common ground to ensure that together. We provide
the educational environment that enables every Dublin
student to thrive.
As a third grade teacher at Frederickson for the last 6
years third grade is near and dear to my heart. I know as
do we all that third grade students only have 1 chance to
be a third grade student.
That sentiment holds true for all of our students
regardless of grade level working together. We can make
that 1 experience their best experience. I look forward to
speaking with each and every 1 of you and I'm excited to
continue our work together for our Dublin students.
Thank you.
All right. Thank you and welcome.
and I think we also have um
statement from csca Yuki
good evening. I'm gonna make this nice and sweet and short
because it's been a long week already.
I'm happy to announce that today was the first day of
school.
I dropped my little kid off at school.
And I saw a whole bunch of happy faces.
On students and parents on the parents side. I'm thinking
they're glad to see them going back to school again.
Or also just a relief.
But it's also a great time to see the teacher smiling and
getting engaged with the students. This is what we do.
Classify has been here all summer long getting the rooms
ready gain the technology ready getting everything ready
for this school year.
I want to knock on wood right now because still early in
the day that
it went without a hitch.
Went great. This is 1 of the best start off that we had. I
want to say right now in technology land.
The phones were quiet.
That's the great thing.
But I imagine what the maintenance was dealing with.
They're probably dealing with quietness too. I hope because
we were working so hard this summer getting the rooms ready
for the students and the teachers.
Seeing our campuses wide open to the public.
having the kids flushing right in
They're happy. These kids were happy.
Some were crying, but most of them were happy.
But 1 thing is it's a great start of the school year, and I
hope we could continue to make it a great 1 for this whole
year. Thank you.
All right. Thank you.
Next up we have the citizen bonds oversight committee
annual reports.
Yes, and our senior director facilities owned fish and
introduces this topic for us.
Board of Trustees superintendent, we're we're glad to bring
to you the the bond oversight annual reports for
let's see. It's 2021.
Through 2022 and 2022 through 2023 and presenting this will
be SEMA badar who is now the chair of the bond oversight
committee.
see
Uh, good evening superintendent Funk Board of Trustees. Um,
it's my honor to um present to you the 2020.
And 2021 2022 23 annual reports from the citizens Bond
oversight committee. Um
We were a bit behind on the um, initial 20202021 reports due
to committee turnover and um, we are now caught up so we
should be up to date, um going forward. Um, this report is
the culmination of a thorough review process where the
committee meticulously examined and the expenditures
related to the bond measures over the past year. We have
received detailed Financial reports audited statements and
project updates from The District staff these documents
provided us with a calm comprehensive understanding of how
the bond funds were allocated and spent on various projects
at our school district.
Um some key findings from our 20202021 fiscal year include
the the um committee is pleased to report that the
district's Bond expenditures were in full compliance with
legal requirements outlined in the bond measures.
Um significant process has been made on various projects
with several key facilities completed ongoing projects are
on schedule ensuring our students and staff benefit from
these improvements, um, the financial statements and audit
reports were accurate and consistent with the district's
records and indicating prudent management of the bond
funds.
um moving on to the 2022 2023 reports, um similar to the
previous years the committee found that the Dublin Unified
School District remains in compliance with all relevant
legal requirements and bod Provisions the project funded by
a major ceh andj have been managed according to the
approved criteria with no evidence of misallocated funds
the funds, uh from measure ceh andj have
Continue to support critical infrastructure projects, for
example, um, significant advancements have been made to the
Emerald High Phase 1 and 2, um projects under measure H and
J. Um among others the completion of these projects will
provide the state-of-the-art educational facility for our
community, um, in terms of financial, uh stability the
community also reviewed the financials which showed that
the bond funds have been utilized effectively for instance
the beginning balance for measure H was approximately 121
million and after interest in expenditures, the ending
balance is uh, 12.47 million these figures underscore the
responsible allocation of resources towards a completion of
ongoing projects. Um, additionally, I'd like to share that.
Um, um, we are changing a a bit about how we're going to
communicate these annual reports being presented to the
community. Um last year we did a mailer. Um, we found that
to be very costly. So what we're going to do going forward
is um, presenting the um, um, like a QR code and a flyer at
different, um, city like,
City Hall and the Dublin Library and Senior Center places
like that where they'll be visible to the community. Um
We also intend to reach out to local media sources like the
patch and the Independent to help so the word and um, this
strategy will hopefully help um ensure that the community
members especially those without students in the district
remained informed without incurring any um, unnecessary
expenses. Um,
that's pretty much what I have any any questions. I'm happy
to answer.
Any board members have questions?
All right, so I would on behalf of the board. Um, thank you
for helping with this committee and all of your committee
members. I know it's probably not the most exciting work.
Um, but it's very important and it it's I think it helps,
um build trust with the community that and to have, you
know, a diverse group of parents, um and community members,
um, helping, you know, keep an eye on everything and show
that we're using it and
and um, we got to
have students at Emerald today. So it's it makes it even
more exciting to kind of bring it back today. So thank you
for all of your efforts. Um, do we need to approve this or
is this just an information?
Um, I believe it's um just information, okay?
Then I won't even call for a vote. So, but thank you very
much and thank you to the rest of your committee. Um
wherever they are tonight appreciate.
All righty. Um next we have our public comment period um
If there's anyone do we have any?
We have 2 public comments.
In person or in person? Okay, you may come up. Um, there'll
be a 3 Minute Timer just a reminder. We are not allowed to
engage in a conversation back and forth.
Um during public comment, but we do listen and we will hear
what you have to say and thanks, so.
Go ahead. I believe our first speaker is Christy. Is that
correct? Yes Christy Marlowe.
Uh, good evening, uh wanted to congratulate the whole
District on the opening of Emerald High School. Um, my
family is very excited. It's open. I have a sophomore
there. Um, I also live right across the street at the
corner of Central and Grafton. Um, I was very happy this
morning to see a lot of students walking and biking to
school. Um, I'm here to talk a little bit more about how
things could be better for those students, uh that want to
walk and Bike to School. Uh,
when the construction fences came down earlier this year
and all the Portables were moved out of the way I was
a little bit disappointed to see um
how
few bike racks there were um and also,
uh
The it seemed like there wasn't a lot of thought given to
how a student would access the campus without being dropped
off in a car. Um,
uh
So it would you know, this is supposed to be a neighborhood
School. Uh, it seems like it should be easy to access by
walking or biking. Um, so
this morning, uh
I walked over after the bell rang to the bike racks and
they were completely full. Um, there are fewer bike racks
there than there are at Fallon and if you've ever been to
Fallon, you know, the bike racks fill up every day. Um, and
those bikes are like locked in a cage. So if you don't get
a spot on the rack, at least your bike is locked up and
that's not the case at emeralds. Um,
I assume it's a similar situation at Cottonwood Creek, uh
students want a bike. Um
Uh, but today I Saw 2 students who showed up late be turned
away because there was we got an email the night before
that. No bikes could be locked to a fence or to a poll. So
they were wandering around trying to find a place to put
their bikes and they basically they left they went home.
They had to go back home to drop their bikes back off and
then get to school with some other way. So I'm sure those
kids were probably discouraged from ever trying.
To bike to school again. Um
also the
um crosswalk at Central and Grafton
leads to nothing like it's just there's bushes. Um, I saw
A month or so ago, um, that kind of realized like, oh,
there's no way to get from here to campus. So they hastily
installed a crosswalk through the parking lot. Um, but it's
not obvious that it's there. So students just were walking
in traffic. Um, so that's a little bit concerning. Um, and
we know that you've identified that it's going to be 24
million dollars for parking garage and maybe you don't need
that parking garage. If you could encourage more kids to
walk and Bike to School, um by making it a lot easier and
more, you know walk and bike friendly for them. Um, I would
encourage you to reach out to
almina County safe for us to school for a School site
assessment. They're fantastic resource. I would be happy to
connect you because I've worked with them a lot. So
that's all I got. Thank you.
Our next speaker is Ruth Ryman, or
I think I said that right.
Um, uh, I want to congratulate you for opening Emerald High
School like Christie. I live across the street. I live
about can I have you go close to the mic? So the view there
you go. Okay. I I know I'm I am my voice doesn't carry very
well. Um, I want to congratulate you for opening Emerald
High School. I like Christy live very very close. I live
about a block from Christie, um in the Sarto Community, uh,
which faces the main office of Emerald High School. Um, I
noticed a couple of things and like first of all the school
is beautiful. I did the open house and it's stunning and
I'm so happy and I cannot wait for the theater to open up
and I think there's a lot of kids that are lost without
theater. So I'm I'm looking forward to that time when the
theater can open so I'm happy about that. But um, I was
hoping to ask you to encourage the school to be a good
neighbor. We have um, 3 communities that are very densely
packed. There's the colonies that's just to the West
Uh a set of I don't know the name of the apartments that
are to the to the East and then serrento directly north.
And all of those are dense housing. Um, I live in Stow.
Tonette town houses, and and it is often, uh difficult to
move around like over here at Dublin High School. It's
difficult to move around during open and closing times of
the school today. However, when I was driving it again it
it's not the school. That's the issue. It's the parents. So
I'm hoping maybe you can encourage the parents today.
Right after I drop Christy home.
There is this parent had stopped in the middle of um, I
think it's gleon that runs north south. But whichever the
north south throat is Grafton.
This parent stopped directly in the middle and loaded their
child, but that whole Lane had stopped. I realized because
multiple parents were picking up their children from the
only it is a single Lane Road from the only lane and then
this parent while I was stopped at the roundabout which you
can sort of see that I'm on a corner while I was stopped at
this roundabout.
This person nearly hit me while driving on the roundabout
you can see their tires are literally up on top of the
roundabout. I do have their license plate number.
um
Which I can enter into record. But um, but then the other
thing is there are parents who are picking up their
children directly in the bike Lanes. So Christie had all
the comments about the bike lane.
And yet you have parents parking in the bike lane where
kids should feel safe to bike to and from school. And then
the last thing is, um, if we could please uh, turn down the
lighting around the school to you know, obviously you want
to make sure that it's visible to the whether or not
there's a trespassers but some of us live there and it is
so bright at night now, please wrap up. All right.
Thank you. Thanks.
Do we have any others and there's no 1 online? All right.
Thank you.
Appreciate the feedback.
Um next we have um
a lot of board policies to discuss tonight and I think we
are starting with um superintendent on a some
Right. Yes i1. Uh, this is a revision to board policy 9220.
There are 2 components 1 just some csba language updates,
but also, uh back in uh, July the board also approved
increasing, uh, the contribution that the district makes to
candidates running for trustee, uh, uh seats, uh to um,
Is it 800?
$800 can let me open that 1 just to confirm I believe it
was $800.
Yeah, $800. Uh, so other otherwise all the other language
is straight. Um csba updated language.
any questions for this 1
trustee Blackman
Thank you for bringing this forward. So I I had a couple
questions. I understand csba update this. Somebody says Eid
code. Um, I was curious. Um
Maybe it's just an echo issue but Echo declares as a
citizens of California. I understand we're residents of
California, but we're I thought we were citizens of the
United States. I don't know that we ever.
Again going to the driver's license associate with the
state of California. Is there anything legally that states
that we're citizens of California anywhere in any document?
It just seems like really strange wording. And I know it's
a code, but I think that if you go to the registers office,
it's they have to be assisted in the United States and a
resident of California.
Um, I was certainly looked at that. Thank you, but it is an
EDC code. It's just very weird, um in the first paragraph.
Um, so a couple things I noticed in terms of some of the
minor edits the Almeida County Office of registers actually
has a really good website with information on it and
they're pretty detailed. It must be is behind the scenes
where you receive documents and information 1 of the
components that talked about when you discussed the
statement piece is that um, they give you these options to
actually write a statement you can actually submit it
electronically and I noticed in our documents, we actually
state that you could actually pay for a statement or you
could have the ability to post an electronic statement, but
I don't think that's actually what the county does they ask
you to submit a statement electronically so that that's how
they receive it into the record for them to print the
statements for the election. I don't believe they post the
statements electronically, so it'd be helpful to update
that information. Um, there are a couple of minor comments
that I had that I thought would help you update. But um,
otherwise, there's um
There's some pieces in here that I would just ask that we
verify with the county because they have very specific
procedural pieces and information they provide candidates
and we might not want to repeat it here, but rather just
reference what they have.
Thank you. Thank you.
other comments
trustee Co
yes, I was reading this and
the section under election process and procedures second
paragraph. It's something that's added because is new. It's
in green text. Um just clarification on that. It sounds
like
if there's no board member there was elected for that term
that coming term the the existing 1 to the 1 with the
expired terms such as myself if no 1 comes forward for
every 3.
Oom sha continue to discharge a duties is that
um
What does that mean? That means that?
I'm on the
yeah, can you can you point to 1 more time for me? Yeah
collection process and procedures. It's on page 2. Oh,
thank you and then second paragraph of that a board member
whose term has expired shall continue to discharge the
duties until a successor is found.
And that's from that code.
Say it again. I'm sorry. It says.
The successor has qualified by taking the oath of office.
So it doesn't mean until it's filled with particularly on
the election case.
so my question would be um
Hypothetically No 1 comes forward for Area 3. I will
continue to serve with that Shaw you would continue to
serve up until um the end of your term the next uh policy
is very specific. It's an update so that if no, 1 applied,
uh, the board, uh, which the deadline is tomorrow, uh, 5:00
pm then from that time to the time of the election the day
before the election the board will then appoint a person
who will then officially start in December?
I see. Okay, so just
oh, all right. I just misread that because I wasn't sure
exactly what that meant. We're not going to keep although
we would love to keep you. We're not going to keep you
beyond your term.
Thank you.
trustee Blackman
I'm glad that William brought that up because I was going
to ask about that piece when we get to the next item
reflecting back on this 1 it would help if there was a
little bit more clarity between the 2 policies because of
the fact that 1 sort of States something that seems to be
in somewhat obscurity or conflict with what stated here and
it is confusing when you do read it.
We'll take a look and see if we can make it clear. Just
something that would be really great. Thank you.
Okay, so that's the first read and we'll bring that back to
the next board meeting in August. Uh, and then I too uh,
again this 1 is specifically, uh time wise is a perfect
timing and it is csba language, uh and updates and so the
key right now is that um, the deadline is, you know was
last Friday, um and to uh, trustee quo, um has announced
that he is not running. So therefore when uh, uh incumbent
candidate does not run, uh, then there's an extension, uh
to the deadline for applications and that's a 5-day
extension. Uh, and that is until uh, the 14th at 5:00 pm,
which is tomorrow. Um, if no 1 app at that point in time,
um, then the board has from that next date, which is the
15th and before the November election, uh to appoint. Uh,
Mr. Crow's successor, uh,
And that person would then start uh in uh, December with
everyone else, um, the board would uh under the direction
of the president determine, uh, you know between the next 8
weeks when uh to hold, um, the application process what the
application process will be and what have you so uh, that
is really the
Updated timing. Now. If only 1 person uh pulls paper
officially by tomorrow, then that person will run unopposed
uh similar to area 4, uh with Miss, uh, Blackman. So, um
tomorrow is a key deadline, uh for Area 3.
Any questions on this particular topic trustee spec and
then I have a question.
Yeah, I have some questions. Um on number 6.
on the first page
Um, it says a board member, um, so it's talking about um
reasons a vacancy that you'd have a vacancy. Uh, and this
is a board member ceases to enhance inhabit the trustee
area represented by the board member. Um, and I feel like
we might need to clarify this statement because that is
actually happened over the last 2 years, but that was okay
and legal, um where we had a board member who was elected
to a certain area and then the maps changed as they um can
do every 10 years and then that board member did not
inhabit the trustee area but was able to be to represent
that are area. So I feel like some more language needs to
get in here because
just the way it's stated is not actually accurate for how
we've operated for the last 2 years. Gotcha.
Um, so that's 1 Point. Um,
and then I guess I would so that was a very specific
example. Um, but I guess I do want clarification if you are
elected to an area and you move.
But you're still in Dublin.
But you're not in the area. Does that mean you have to give
up your seat?
So I'm seeing a shaking head. Yes. That's correct. Okay, so
there's just 1 way that you can
um keep your seat.
And that is if you were essentially the map changes and
you're no longer in it, correct that you still have time in
your term. Oh, you still have time in your term? Okay.
um
the um
the last sentence
uh, the very last sentence when is authorized by law the
board seeks to make an appointment because of a failure to
elect the board by resolution May approve any additional
procedures for selecting the person to be appointed to fill
the vacancy.
Can you give me an example like what what are we talking
about here? It's just very Broad and I'm not really and I
don't understand what is referencing. So so basically the
board will pass a resolution that has the criteria for
people to apply and the process that the board will follow
to um, choose that pairs that that can
It and so it will be published so that everyone knows during
that timeline. What is the criteria when the um
When the actual interviews will take place and and the
selection process. Okay. So the procedure is really more of
a kind of logistical thing of correct. Yes. Okay. Okay, and
then um, my my last question which I didn't see in here is
what if no 1 comes forward.
So we'll continue the example. You have Area 3 if no 1
posts tomorrow and then we we say, okay, we're you know, we
we we put our procedures out and no 1 comes forward.
I don't have an answer for that question. I will find it,
uh get it by legal before uh the next time and if we need
to add language that helps that answer that um specific
example, we'll add that language. Okay? Yeah. I mean it
hasn't happened obvious. I mean every time in the, you know
future that I or the past I you know recalled where we've
had we've always had several actually, but
I there's always a first for everything. So I think we
should just maybe be prepared if if no 1 actually came
forward.
That was all I have.
trustee quo and then trustee Blackman
I distribute a coupon so is a term prior to the day fix for
the election. That's what you mean by tomorrow. I mean on
page 3
because I'm trying to read up because when I read through
this I didn't get the idea that the appointment would
occur.
Like in the next couple weeks because it sounds like if no
1 steps forward. If no 1 steps forward tomorrow at 5:00 pm
the board must uh appoint someone prior to the election
date and
So is that what the term being here a meeting prior to the
day fixed 4 Day election, and I just trying to find.
Fix for can we clarify that or just make it understandable
because I didn't catch that.
That term fixed we'll review it and see if we can make it
clear. Yeah, right picture. Yeah, because I'm not sure what
fixer election meant so
trusty Blackman
I actually agree with some of the comments that um trustee
Speck and trustee Co made those were all serious. I thought
were confusing to follow up which what trustee Co had
stated that maybe a sub paragraph that were actually on
word salad the description that makes it so confusing to
understand about what exactly the next steps are. If in
fact nobody steps forward to qualify for a neck protection
in the seat. That would be helpful. Um, I do agree that the
last paragraph, um, when authorized by law and I understand
your your description of the resolution, but I actually
think that there should be if we're talking about board
policy there should perhaps be more
Specifics about what the resolution is designed to do to in
fact sculpt out the process the schedule may be the our
qualifications. We do know some of those are from the
county about as you mentioned before being a resident
living in the area of the things like that. I think that
would really help us understand because when I I looked at
this I thought this leaves it really wide open and it could
change from a board now to a board in 10 years could have
very different ideas about how to do this and there should
be some level of thoroughness and consistency. I think so
maybe some structure to it would help. Um, just to give an
idea about the things that we would need to consider in a
resolution. I think it'd be great, but I don't want to go
back. Um,
Because I found this section, um under item number 3. I
actually found that we crossed off and maybe it's somewhere
else in the code because a lot of this has been moved
around but I actually found that the paragraph under 3 that
describes. I know this is Ed code and it's been Rewritten
but it actually does a pretty good job of describing 1 of
what a vacancy is when it happens how it happens and why we
have to do these things and I think that's a good
introduction to understanding why we actually have to have
this board resolution. Not that we anticipate we'll have a
vacancy but these are circumstances that occur and this is
why we do these, you know, 3 or 4 different situations that
we have to address. So I appreciate it being there, but I
know it got crossed off because it's probably been updated
but I really liked where it was at the beginning. Um,
So when we are describing a a board member who moves which
I think was an important.
I'm sorry to interrupt you. But what 3 are you referring
to? Are you the last comment on page 1 on page 1 yes, it
says events causing a vacancy and there's this whole
section number 3 that actually does a really good job. I
know it may be old egg coat but it does a nice job of
actually explaining the is behind a vacancy and I think if
you're anybody coming to the board looking at what the
policy is all about that does a really nice job explaining
what we're thinking with the issue is why it occurs and
what we're supposed to do. Um, it maybe doesn't need the
details about the dates and the days but I actually thought
there was some thing about it. That was nice having it up
in that section.
um, maybe you don't have to include that it was old Ed
cope, but maybe just something that kind of summarized that
um,
there the um
question I had about there's a lot of things about days and
dates 60 days versus 90 days. Um versus 6 months. It'd be
nice if there is consistency and is it really days or is it
months? Um, that was 1 of the comments I made um and item
number 10 on the second page. There's something I don't
know what it is. It says that um the board members refusal
or neglect to file the required oath or Bond within the
time prescribed.
What do you mean by bond? Is this for like a different kind
of election where people have to put forward?
some type of
bond fund to secure being on the ballot. I didn't
understand what Bond was in that statement. Yeah. I'm not
the bond is replacing the oath, but I'm not sure what the
bond how much it is or what it means so I I can find that
out. Okay. Thank you because I I would be more confused
ring this.
And it would be helpful to know what that is. Um also in
the item number 11, if there be some explanation about what
exactly um transpires how that's created or anything about
that what triggers it? For example, I think that would be
helpful. Not that we would do that, but I just find it. I
don't know maybe something happened years ago and this made
sense, but I don't know what it is.
Item 12 is crossed off and then item 13. So we just leaving
item 12 empty. Are we going to Wren numerate the items on
that page?
Um
Correct. Do you love 12 13 will become 12 and 14 will
become 13. Um.
I had I had actually got a couple of
can you explain um, we've had some instances where we've
had elections between
regularly scheduled State elections and I believe there's
been a change to some of that information in terms of when
we are required to if we have to have a special election
because of some of the dates required by Ed code when in
fact that election is required to be combined with a
regularly scheduled election, we've had instances where
things like that occur in the aligned with the spring
election, that could be normally scheduled by the county.
But when it occurs in 1 of these very strange places where
it's after like November not close this spring.
I find it very confusing to read all of these if when but
type of paragraphs, maybe it's just like a chart.
And then lastly, well, I I I think really what would happen
is we were confirmed with the county and legal council on
the timing and what that cost would be and whether we can
join an existing or upcoming election or we would have to
hold 1 just simply ourselves. So I don't think as your
superintendent. I wouldn't make that recommendation to the
board to make that call without us confirming with the
County Register of Voters and our legal counsel. So Under
The Heading of
Timelines for family and vacancy could be add something to
that first sentence that just declares that we would
coordinate that with the county.
Because otherwise, I have no problem with the lower
paragraphs because I don't have to worry about the county
is going to kind of tell us.
Sure, that makes sense. Um
So the eligibility requirements for appointment, um is also
at the county level. So is there are we restating that
information in the next item below number 3 there on that
page?
Are we?
Are we basically copying what the county has on its
documents? Are we creating our own set? And the that's why
I brought the other point of.
Is it possible that we could coordinate with the county or
just reference their site?
So that we're not duplicating any information especially if
they for whatever reason updated. I don't know why.
Are you talking about if the for the resolution for the
board to um choose a candidate know I'm looking at the
eligibility for appointment. Um, I guess
okay, maybe I'm confused when we qualify someone the very
last line sentence that we were talking about earlier kind
of curtails into under the words eligibility for
appointment it the county actually States the parameters by
which anyone can run for various offices whether it's state
or local and so it would be either helpful if we reference
their information or if we just restate what they put on
their site.
Then we wouldn't have to include it in the last sentence. I
think.
Again, isn't that what you asked me to look into for the
resolution to be more specific?
Of the yes, okay.
But you could do it up here instead of in that section down
there if you want to that's all.
Um, I think that's all the
comments I have from this sheet if I have any other ones
all 4 of them to you. Thank you. All right. Thank you. I'll
bring it back, uh at the next board meeting for a second
read. I have 1 clear question. Just checking. Um, it's says
for the appointment it would be until the next election. So
if we appointed someone for Area 3, would that be a 2-year
term then it'd be a
I'm sorry. My mic wasn't on it would be a 2 year term.
Okay, good. Thank you. I didn't realize that. So that's
important clarification clarification because I know when
you were appointed it was until the next election which was
off cycle of when and then you ran at that election. So it
would technically be a 2-year term until the next.
election cycle
that is how I read filling a vacancy.
Right, and that's why all that would be in the resolution.
So everyone is clear on, um, the criteria for running and
the length of the term of that appointment.
Can I ask the question though?
If the county were to run 1 of their elections in the
spring.
Would that require us to move that election to the spring
or we actually really do carry the full 2 terms because the
appointments for 2 terms. So the appointment dictates it
for 2 terms. Where is it? Just until the next I mean, sorry
2 years or is it literally until the next election whenever
that occurs it says to the next regularly scheduled
election for that office.
So that office so that would be when?
2 and 5 are up.
But that could be 4 years if it's the regularly scheduled
election for that office. I would consider all of these
that office.
I think that's what we did. Correct and it's every 2 years
every 2 years. We we elect we're on the regular cycle.
very good
doesn't need clarification that the appointment if it were
to occur is
2 years, I mean not to
the well, okay. No, never mind. I was thinking do we need
to put verbage in there? So folks are not confused at all.
Like hey, if I'm appointed I can step down in November of
the same year. Well, we'll put that we would put that in
the resolution prior to the application window. So everyone
will know what the criteria is to apply right what the
process is to be appointed and what the length of the term
will be. Okay. Yeah. Thank you.
Okay, so those will both come back for second readings.
Next meeting, correct?
That is correct. Okay.
Um next we have another.
first reading
um board policy on AI
Yeah, this is exciting. Um, I want to introduce. Well,
first of all, thank you president Palm superintendent Funk
and Board of Trustees and members of the community. I
wanted to interview Steve while they are chief technology
officer as he's approaching. I just want to say some nice
things about him and his leadership on on this particular
board policy.
Uh typically as you heard, uh, Mr. Funk earlier today is
that we get our recommendations from csba.
well, um, we are ahead of csba and most districts and so we
are on The Cutting Edge Dublin is on The Cutting Edge of of
this policy and it's largely as a result of um,
superintendent funks leadership and and Dave's and so just
want to uh, say a nice things about Dave. He's done a nice
job of leading his group to Dave valdi.
I better go well s***.
Good evening, uh president felm superintendent Funk Board
of Trustees and executive cabinet. Um,
Like Matt said tonight, I bring uh the first reading of a
board Pol of board policy and administrative regulation
0444 0.1 artificial intelligence.
What you see here, uh before you as a culmination of work
by the technology advisory committee's AI sub uh committee.
Uh with the assistance of in code Justice, which is led by
our own, uh diksha.
gladon, and I
and I'm very excited about this policy and are not because
it's Earth shattering, but it goes beyond the
typical resolution or exhibit and really sets down just a
quite policy, uh that we can follow.
And with all dis, uh Technology based policies. We know
that this 1 will be under regular review.
Uh to capture changes in artificial intelligence and how it
is used within education and the work environment and how
it affects learning outcomes.
So this is the first reading of a long line of first
readings tonight, and I'm here to take comments and answer
questions as we move forward towards the second reading.
trustee blacken
Thank you so much for bringing this forward and for the
amount of work. It takes to develop something from scratch.
I know it's challenging and definitely appreciate it. Um
A couple things. I I understand that we're trying to um, at
least hammer out something that is both Broad and flexible.
But also well defined the 1 thing I will point out is like
in the are. Um, I was reading in some cases we talked about
what students can can't do should shouldn't do but 1 of the
things we didn't talk about something we worked really hard
with our grading policy is trying to create a level of
uniformity between teachers working in the same subject
areas. So if you're teaching let's say history and it's all
all these student classes and all these teachers that the
level and ability for students from the same course with
different teachers to use access those tools should be
uniform in some way. So that 1 student group doesn't have
the same project and somebody gets to use AI for half of it
and somebody gets to use AI for none of it.
Again, these help students in some ways, but we need to make
it somewhat fair and reasonable across um these groups.
So I I hope that's clear enough and I didn't necessarily
see that in here. Um, no, we could tie that in with the
wording that we've used with the grading policy for
collaboration. That would be great in certain subjects.
Yeah, and in some ways that maybe this is part of that
discussion since it does inform the ability for students to
represent their ideas and to be graded for them. But um not
touching on that point. But um, I was curious about how do
we really know? How do we really test? How do we really
define whether or not a student has used AI to as you noted
in the are rephrase rewrite more than 50% 15% of their
writing because it is possible for students to use an AI
platform. And then to retype the entirety of it into
another document without you or anyone else being able to
trace that. In fact that was generated from AI. So how are
we actually tracking the some of the parameters we've set
for students to be able to limit their rely Reliance on it.
Well, and that is the difficult part of AI and I think
that's what frustrates teachers the most is how do I catch
it? And
Some ways like we know certain students are using it. How
do I catch it? And a lot of the time it is that very how do
you say robotics style of writing and also where words that
AI uses don't really fit into in the context. They seem
like the right word, but they're not contextually the right
word for a student who's trying to write eloquently. Um,
And uh, so yes, there are ways if I was to take something
from chat GPT, and I was to put it into Coral Bots and then
I was to put it through grammarly. I might come out with
something entirely different or if I was to rewrite the
idea. Yes, but I think it's for the teacher who is
reviewing. Um,
the the finished work
to see that it is it is.
Is this within the students? Um
this is in the students like
educational level wording level. Is it something that they
would turn in and that's it's really when we look at
teaching.
uh and like signing works like taking profound ideas or
quoting or things like that as a teacher teachers can see.
Okay. This is not your work. This is obviously not your
thought or I've heard this thought somewhere else and it
needs to be quoted. We need to add AI into that that that
talk of of when we're quoting books and periodicals and
magazines and speeches and things like that AI needs to be
part of that because that's the same kind of style of
teacher when they're grading. They're going to see that
this is not the student's profound work with a 15% It's
something we went back and forth on a little bit with our
committee in terms of like how do you really judge 15% and
we went with well a number of words things like that. We we
stayed with 15% but that's something we're flexible with in
terms of rewarding.
So I appreciate that because I think that's going to be the
biggest challenge here. But 1 Thing also would be to look
at I know in some cases you can look at the speed at which
a student inputs information how fast they write and create
is an indication of it not being generated in Earnest. Um,
so anyways, I know you'll be struggling with that and I
just was curious about it. Um, I understand that we already
use some of these you included, uh, grammar punctuation. So
are we now putting the things that we use in like word and
other platforms that just do grammar checks as being in AI
even though we've all been essentially I assume everybody's
been using that those for a long time. We're checks in the
systems like that is is
typical use it it is kind of what we would call walled AI
which it's it's it's um artificial intelligence that's
generated before in a specific use and Rule with
punctuation being that way. Um,
uh, is that part of the 15% The only reason why I ask is
we're all guilty of the of using that so that would wipe
out almost anything anybody uses to try and check spelling.
They may write out this entire thing after we know uh, I
didn't do that but I just was like thinking like we all use
it. So, where's the what's in the 15% what when you I guess
I would like a little bit more information on the 15% so
well and I think what we're looking at 15% is is the the
actual writing and ideas that go into um the work not
necessarily the grammar but that is important when we talk
about eloquent writing when we talk about uh in English
that students use proper grammar and punctuation. But um, I
think it's more towards the actual thought.
and actual ideal
process that goes into writing
so when we look at the policy itself, and I appreciate the
amount of work that went into it. I will share 1 thing. I
would love it if we could actually write a paragraph for a
piece that talks about and I sort of wrote my own little
thing that says how families are essentially a component of
the support structure that helps students. They work with
us. They're part of that group that basically supports as
soon as they're learning along the way not in the
classroom, but some way that actually Embraces the fact
that they're Partners in overseeing their students use of
AI at home and to that extent we would need to educate them
a little bit about what platforms what AI tools and other
things we actually would request they kind of check in and
ensure that their student isn't taking full advantage of it
because I think if you leave a child onto their own without
any oversight at home, how are you ever going to know that
makes your job harder, but if you could add a piece that at
least tries to broaden who this is addressing to bring the
parents in as partners with us and ensuring that I AI is an
abused when the students are working at home on projects
and
Things I think that would be nice trusty Blackman. Are you
suggesting that in the policy or the are that's I would
like I would like that in the policy because then it sets
that it's a board in a bigger picture that we acknowledge
that parents are a partner with us in this issue. If you
want to put the specifics of it in the are that's fine, but
I think it'd be nice to have it in the board policy.
And um, maybe some parameters about it. Um,
1 of the things that I'm finding that we need a lot more
work on is we have a lot of tools they're rolling out and
for students whose maybe parents and others.
Have a bit more Tech background. They might be more fossil
and I was wondering with inviting showing demonstrating
their children to these platforms and tools rather soon as
they don't so is there going to be some sort of training or
some sort of like we're going to introduce you to these
tools. They're for you can manage it. Is there something
that's going to be included where we take more control over
what tools we will
show you how to properly use or we just assuming we're
going to police students with whatever tool they come up
with. Well, I think to first start in terms of the family
and terms of the r would think we would look at something
in the training and professional development area and being
hosting family information. Is that might provide that area
in the are to cover also the for policy change, but I think
what we would be doing and it is in the um,
the IT department and also in um
is that we would be um
And I think it's also in the professional development that
we would be um coming up with.
Training for certain AI usages within the classroom. So we
look at something like magic bus, which is a fantastic
website. It's all AI driven for teachers to build rubrics
and things like that. So we've already started and done
some training with that kind of with those kinds of
products to assist teachers, but this would also be um,
looking at different kinds of platforms that are out there
that students would be using and training students and also
we could be offering a a family night or something where we
could provide that to families as well about how they're
used what they can use because 1 of these things is 1 of
our in our R is ALS making sure that the teacher
Uh differentiates what AI tools they're allowed to use
within their assignments. And so for them to have a good
broad range and training on each of them that's going to be
very important and that's something that it and c and I
will be working together with to provide.
Thank you for clarifying that really helps because I was
just curious like where the road starts and ends on this.
Um, I don't really know if a lot of the companies are
developing AI have ever considered doing a roll out just
for schools that would provide a platform that you could
actually manage.
Through the platform both the students access you could
look at whether it's 15% but also to put some parameters on
timeliness and use right now. It's a free-for-all but it's
possible that they might be interested in something that
would give them a better Avenue working with younger
people. Um 1 of the questions. I also had was there was a
series of statements in here, and I know that this is
really hard to for some people but AI has been criticized
for a while with how you know, garbage and garbage out.
Sometimes the information comes in. It's just using the
data that's out there and and we all know when we see it
sort of thing, but when we use terms in the documents that
we talk about bias, I think a lot of times the
The automatic go to is maybe something other than what the
intent is and so finding a word that talks about the
inaccuracy of the output of the AI to describe how data
sometimes doesn't result in most accurate output might be a
better way of disseminating the fact that there's a lot of
false information and the limitations of the AI model. Um,
I just don't want to get mixed up with some of the other
comments that have occurred with the problems with the
recent and we've all seen it online with
AI but thank you very much for bringing this forward. I
think it's a great start and I
I hope it works so, too. Thank you.
I just had 1 thing and it's uh, it's up on the screen. It's
the third paragraph and it's just the policy. Yes. Um, it's
just a terminology you're talking about how students and
Educators must remain the center of Education. Um, and this
is an evidence-based AI technology must enhance the
educational experience and I there's something about the
word must to me because there's times when it doesn't so I
just think the word may is is just the way it reads is like
it must be a part of everything and it's going to enhance
it versus just it may enhance it when appropriate. Okay?
Yeah, absolutely.
Well, and that is the idea of shallow shallow, you know
will you know, we're definitely not forcing.
Teachers to use AI if they you know, they don't feel it's
necessary or when there's classrooms there. It doesn't make
sense. So we can't say yeah, you have to have a Impe I mean
because it's in every class. But yes if they want to
definitely
um Tracy vishwani, that's 20
I just wanted to say I'm really glad this is being brought
forward because being a high school student, of course,
I've seen with other students how and with teachers and
parents. Actually there can be like a there's a signal on
AI that it's like either something really bad for students
to use and what this policy it kind of makes it that they
can learn how to use it. Right and it's just I just want to
say thank you for bringing this forward because it will
help like the educational system a lot. Thank you.
All right. Thank you. I think I have a few things and then
this will come back next meeting as well. Yes next week.
All righty. Thank you. Thank you to your committee and our
great students who have been a big part of this and helping
move us move us forward. Absolutely. Thank you.
Alrighty, next up we have.
a lot of HR
Yes, we do.
um
All of the items that were bringing forward tonight for our
first reading, um, many of them relate to generalities
around safety and notifying employees of policies that
relate to that. Um, so the first 1 that we have is k1 and
the policy is related to employee notifications.
And you'll see that we're bringing forward an update.
and also 2 aars that are being recommended um to resend
can I answer any questions about this first reading on this
policy?
um any questions, I mean
I feel like I've read a lot of these on the other side as
well. So
Okay.
And I think all right is everything tonight. First reading
is on all these? Yes. Okay. Yes it is so we can just kind
of go through and talk. Yes people have questions related
to specific ones.
mostly
item K2 is also a first reading of board policies related
to employee safety. Um, the BPS are updated and then new
administrative regulations a company them.
And um again, I I can answer any questions that you have
essentially, um this policy update relates to as I've
indicated in the background a recent Senate bill that was
passed. Um that supports an implementation of a workplace
violence prevention plan, which we have completed and is up
on the website and the requirements related to that policy
are currently in motion.
We're very happy about that. It was a large project.
trustee backman
I thank you for bringing this forward. I just had a couple
comments and I'll just use the first 1.
I think it's 4157. It's through all kind of similar. Um
when we talk about the first paragraph. Um,
In terms of the second sentence working conditions and
Equipment shall be shall comply with standards prescribed
by federal state local laws and regulations. I don't
actually think that equipment I don't think it sounds
strange to say equipment but perhaps it's the use or
maintenance of equipment.
That we're talking about. Um as opposed to the equip. I
don't think we would buy equipment that didn't meet Federal
standards, but it might be the how we're
Maintaining it. Um, sure. Yeah, I can take a look at the
way that that
Sounds when when it's um phrased that way, thank you.
Thanks and then um
the I think it's the
all employees. There's a paragraph couple further down all
employees are expected to Safe work practices. Um,
we took out the in the sentence in the paragraph like 2
paragraphs before the board. It says the board expects.
We remove the board expect. Um, so I was just curious why
if this is word policy.
or we removing the board expects just because
I don't know what I was just curious. It seems like the
only change is really something really to that statement.
Um, and then I went down to
um, there's a paragraph the superintendent or designee
shall make first aid materials readily available and I
thought about this paragraph and some of the the paragraph
that was crossed off before talking about I protected
devices. So when we talk about first aid materials a lot of
times that's like eyewash stations Band-Aids other things
that deal with as an after effect, but I thought some of
what was in the paragraph before was really protective and
safety devices and AIDS, but when we cross off the
paragraph in pink before we don't really have anything that
talks about the fact that we have
Provided these truly like protection safety devices and AIDS
throughout our facilities like in case there's an incident
and I thought we need to include that somewhere in here. I
know it's maybe not part of
some code piece, but I thought we should probably at least
make that statement that we would make those.
Safety elements available then. It's great that we have the
afterthought the first aid pieces there in case something
goes wrong, but
Um, okay. I think the goggles especially but anyways, those
are my own my only comments. Thank you.
Thank you. Yeah, I'll take a look at the way that's worded
so that it's um more clear.
I I understand what you're saying.
Any other questions on this 1 and these are like the the 3
like it's for correct certificated and and Leadership. Yes.
figuring out those patterns
All righty, and the next 1 is yeah K3. Um, thank you. So
this is again a first reading and relates to updated board
board policies for policies. We always have already have an
effect for employees with infectious disease and in the
background, I've given um some explanation primarily. This
is just to make sure that we're updated with language
around ADI Ada and fiha and 504 language. Um, and it adds
additional language included with those that might be
infected with diseases such as HIV.
AIDS and hepatitis
C Blackman, thank you for presenting this I just a couple
quick questions. So on the paragraph where we talk about
that the super it's at the bottom pretty much but um of the
first page the superintendent of design shall immediately
report to local Health officer the presence or suspected
presence of a etc. It's a disease. I I often looked at some
of this information thought well, how do you know because
we have individual HEPA protections where unless that
individual disclose is something how would we ever know to
be able to provide that information to a county or local
Health officer?
Without the employer individual on site disclosing it and
then they would have to do they disclose it to us or I
don't understand the process where we've ever come into
that information.
Are you referring to the red line the language that struck
out know the language that's in there's a paragraph that
just talks how the superintendent didn't show immediately
report. Yeah to the local Health officer the presence of or
suspected presence of this, but I'm not really clear on.
How do we come about that information throughout some of
this I actually was looking for things like where are our
where individuals um
Health um proxies where where is their health protected here
where how do we acquire that information without violating
their privacy?
Well, I think that the language while it may not seem
clear. I believe it it is clear that the superintendent
shall report it when and if they know.
So they may not know that someone has a communicable
disease. However, if we become aware or if a school nurse
or any other health, um Health official in the district
becomes aware of or we know about it. Then the obligation
to report is in play So you you're correct that um, for
example, when we're processing a leave request or a request
for accommodation, we may know that the employee has a
medical condition, but we can't require that. They tell us
what the condition is. Um, but I would add to that that
within our rights we are able to ask for more information
from a physician as long as we're not asking them to
disclose confidential information and occasionally through
the questionnaires that we're allowed to give to
Physicians. They provide us with additional detail that
that's more over important around deciding whether or not
we can reasonably accommodate not because we're looking to
have something to report. Um, but sometimes it relates to
that as well. Yeah, I understand that especially with
leaves and other
Things where there's a wall of privacy from the information,
but in here there's obviously some sort of evidence of a
disease or presence of 1 that causes you to report it. So
I'm just wondering how we actually come upon those facts
when most of that information is highly protected. Yeah, I
guess I would say it depends but only by doing it legally.
doing it legally. So if the employee makes us aware or
otherwise, but we wouldn't attempt to get that information,
um without doing so in a protective and legal way.
So the other comment that I want to make is that we do have
the county health officers which during coid that provide a
lot of updates and information. So would we be inputting
some statement in here about the fact that we wouldn't be
making a lot of these decisions about how to manage these
outbreaks we'd be working with them on protocols and things
that we would need to do or we bringing I'm assuming we're
not relying on our nurse our district nurse to make those
decisions. But are we involving the county health officer
or some other agency to come in and work with us on how we
mitigate that if there's any kind of spread? Yes. Okay, and
that stated somewhere in here because I didn't really see
much. Well, I think I think the reference that's in there
relates to the California code that requires the list of
items that we have to report and um within that
additionally yes, we would consult with them. I think the
most present example for all of us would be around Co 19
and all of the interactions that we had with the county.
While we were monitoring and tracking, um coid which was 1
infected. We had a lot of action around.
Yeah, as I was going to jump in and say that that's what
this reminded me of that we would report to the county and
if you were taking leave because you had covid then you
would tell that that's why you're taking leave. And so then
you would know and then we had to report to the county.
Employee stuff. So I I assume it's it's something to that
effect where we're having to collect information like that
and report it and then and you'll see policies related to
students because more often than not because we have more
students together. They may bring a communicable disease to
school and there's guidelines around how we report those as
well.
So for a follow-up question then is so this is primarily
more common communicable diseases as opposed to like
infectious diseases where you would actually have like a
I don't know like an emergency. Um, it just seems like it's
more like things that we can deal with at the medical
level. Not the sort of severe like, you know Contagion.
Yeah, I would have to I would have to bring the list up in
order to tell you for sure. But I think the policy clearly
indicates that it's a communicable infectious disease and
then we follow the guidelines that were required to around
what is in the list that we have to report.
Thank you very much. You're welcome.
Any other questions on?
4119 if not, then we'll go on to
0411 19.42
Bloodborne pathogens everyone's favorite beginning of the
year training. Yes. Yes. Yes. So the next item also
continuing around, um health and safety is in relation to
exposure control for bloodborne pathogens. Um, and also
makes reference to Hepatitis B, um, and this is again an
updated policy. Um, so we're just updating language that we
already had um to make it current and if I can answer any
questions, let me know.
Trustee Blackman. All right. So second to last paragraph.
we're talking about identifying an employee that has an
occupational exposure. So in other words already exposed
and yet we're talking about training and then also then
putting them in a vaccination program, but this seems like
this is after the
The horses of the barn sort of thing where where it's
already happened. So is this really preventative or is this
after the fact
I was trying to understand it like because it sounds like
the person's already been exposed.
Correct. Um, so it relates primarily to around when we know
there's been an exposure incident. Um, and also you're
right that there is training that is involved in this and
then there's a form that employees can turn in to request
um being vaccinated for Hepatitis B, and that's actually um
a piece of this policy that we're currently working on
implementing.
We want to do the training and the vaccination before the
exposure.
Well, um.
I I can't say for sure whether we should do it beforehand.
Uh, the policy talks about this policy is in related to
exposure control plan. So, um, some of the things that are
included in this policy relate to things as you mentioned
at the beginning that we've already done training on and
that we continue to do training on so in the bloodborne
pathogen training that we do, um while I don't have it
fresh in my mind right now, I've recently watched it and it
does have a number of preventative tips and guidelines
provided in the training around how to prevent exposure.
And then again, I do think it's really important that it's
what do you do if in fact you become exposed
Thank you.
You're welcome.
All right. Any other questions on that 1?
All righty, um next 1 for universal precautions.
So we're on the theme of safety and precaution, um around
health and wellness. So this policy um isn't again an
updated policy around universal precautions. It is already
1 that we have in place and further extends language around
um, hepatitis and also, um language around AIDS or aides
related conditions. And again, it's just an update to make
sure that we're current and have new language related to
those things.
Can I answer any questions on this 1?
All right.
not seeing in and I'm assuming if for some reason someone
jumps on for public comment for any of these you'll let me
know, but I'm assuming
they're not.
And I do think trustee Blackman. This is a wonderful
partner to the last policy where you ask questions about
prevention. It talks a little bit about that here as well.
All righty.
Okay, um new topic. Yeah.
4111 yes.
Yeah this policy um near and dear to my heart around
Recruitment and selection and Human Resources. Um, first
readings on updo updated policies for Recruitment and
selection. If you look at the policy, um, you're going to
notice there's just some updated language around
discrimination, um how we hire and what procedures we use
to ensure that we're um, recruiting from a direct a diverse
pool of candidates.
May I answer any questions?
trustee Blackman
Thank you. I know this is a
a good stuff in here. Um, so my question was um,
when we we crossed out the item at the first sentence
saying the most holy High highly qualified replaced it with
suitable
Um, why?
Why wouldn't we want the most highly qualified individuals
for a position?
And how it is suitable best describe the most highly
qualified individual. I mean the reason why I asked if
somebody has 10 years of experience in their extraordinary
and somebody has 5 that and their extraordinary it seems
like we'd want the person with 10 years. But if we pick 5
would that be in the suitable category or would we I'm just
not understanding why we replace the verbiage.
Would you like us to take a look at that and consider if it
should remain in for the next reading qualified is in there
just right after and just say highly just as qualified. The
reason why I ask is that this morning at the
there was a lot of committee members outside Emerald when
it opened today and 1 of the things they were adamant about
is the level and quality of education. And I think it was
something that was just reiterated over and over again.
in their excitement of the new school opening and the
quality of education at Dublin, so it just seems like we
would still want to be
I think it's a goal.
Not that we always get but I think it's a good goal to have
okay.
all right, um couple things I want to ask is um,
We talked about.
Um trying to build greater. Maybe this is on the other 1.
Um
I might take some of this discussion offline but 1 of the
concerns I had was because I know that we're trying to
create greater diversity in our hires.
But as a board member we take an oath to the US
Constitution and to the Constitution of the State of
California.
That we are prevented from enacting or doing anything that
would create any imbalance or any impact negatively that
might be discerned as selecting somebody based on protected
class.
And so I caution us when we write some of our
policies with regard to Recruitment and selection that
might allude to it only because there's been a couple
recent cases.
In the United States that have basically changed the
interpretation of the Civil Rights Act and um Echo will
hiring practices and Etc. So I don't know if I necessarily
have the discussion here, but I do feel that we need to be
really careful about how we write some of this. I do
believe that as much as we can be neutral and focus merely
on an individual's qualifications will probably be safe.
Um,
just fearful of what we do when we hire if we make any kind
of mistakes if it's subtle.
We will put ourselves in the long list of groups and
organizations that are basically in the line to head to the
federal courts, and I don't want us to be there. So if you
like to have a discussion separately, I'm happy to do that
later this week.
Thank you. We'll definitely take a look at that.
Any other questions or any other board members?
No, it will go on to bargaining units recognized employee
organizations. Thank you. Yes, um this again is an updated
board policy. There's also a new board policy. Um, and it's
around bargaining units and recognizing our employee
organizations. I think primarily what I would say about
this and it's fairly evident in the red line is that
there's just um, an abundance of additional language added
to provide Clarity around a number of things that I believe
were already doing, um, but to make very clear what those
things are.
And if I can answer questions, please let me know.
Jesse Buckman, can I just have you open the file? Because
maybe I have an old file but my file actually shows the red
line 1 actually shows the same text repeated twice in the
document and I don't know if that was just an older version
it got updated on the red line. Yeah for 4140, uh for yeah,
4140. Yeah, because it states formation of bargaining units
and you go further down and then the membership and there's
formation of bargaining units again, so I was just I kept
thinking maybe there's some subtlety to it that I'm missing
and I read it again and it was like, it sounds a lot like
the stuff at the beginning. I'm not sure you might be
correct, but I do see a couple of differences, but I'll
make sure that I take a look at that. Yeah, that'd be
helpful because I didn't know what I'm supposed to be
reading if it's thank you. Okay. Thank you very much. Yes,
definitely. I'll review it. It does look like it there are
some differences, but I'll be sure to
to check that carefully
All right any other questions otherwise?
So minor revisions and they'll come back.
next meeting
All righty.
Moving on it looks like we have a resolution. Um related to
Shamrock Hills.
and sea
and I see
assistant superintendent more
Uh, good evening, uh board president pelum superintendent
Funk members of the board trustees. Uh today we're asking
you to pass a resolution.
Finding no further environmental review is required for the
Shamrock Hills tk8 School pursuant to public resource code
21166 under the California Environmental Quality act. Uh,
there's a pretty extensive background here. Uh, but if you
have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them.
I'm not seeing any questions. Do you have any public
comment on this 1?
um
There's no questions. I will take a motion to approve this
resolution.
I'll move that we approve resolution number 202425004.
I'll second.
motion a second, uh
Sorry, I totally blanked on your name.
Oh you're on it.
trustee peswani
Hi, how you vote everyone else? Hi. Hi.
Sorry, I almost called you by your first name and then I'm
like, nope, okay?
All righty.
That was easy.
Um next we are moving on to consent which is MN o p and Q.
Is there anything anyone wishes to pull from consent?
trustee Blackman
don't want to pull something. I just want to thank somebody
for something and if I can't pull it then I can't thank
them. So do you want me to pull it or?
I would like to pull.
our 4
my apologies
So you'll still be able to comment when you get there?
an Opie and Q
I'll move that we approve the concent calendars and MN o p
and Q.
I'll second.
All righty. We have a motion in a second.
any other
Call for vote.
Um trustee pisani I everyone else. I I I passes
unanimously.
All righty, and then there are some written reports.
Um in our which are not um voted on but um, would you like
to trusty black? And would you like to make a comment on
our 4 and the Beautiful budget books?
And also our 2. I actually have a question about R2.
Okay going to start with R2 then so in R2 the agenda says
that csba directors at large comprised of only certain
categories.
Um, they're fairly limited has does anybody know if csba
ever thought about?
Doing away with these very bizarre sort of almost like
prescriptive ancient from like another era of views of how
we Define the different individuals who joined csba in
these positions.
Seems like it's I I just I'm looking at it. There's whole
groups of individuals who could participate that don't fit
in these categories and never would be able to and I've
ever wondered if anybody's ever written the directors and
said, you know, this is really a very old-fashioned way of
looking how we divide up a board.
Anybody from the Middle East for example would not be able
to participate.
I have not but you are welcome to reach out to them ahead
of the next csba. I think it might be something worthy of
discussion if they wanted to talk about it at the next.
Delegate assembly. Um, I know I don't think any of us have
been directly involved. Um, I think there are some local
Representatives.
um local trustees
in our area that are part of the delegate assembly that
maybe you want to get in touch with I think we
either voted on or didn't vote on some of them.
Yeah, we did very obscure as to who they are and where they
made it and
yeah, I'm sure we could find out who they are and maybe
get in touch with them about that'd be great. Thank you.
So if I can speak to our 4, I just want to thank um, Chris
Hobbs and his team for once again producing a really very
fine document. I think it's a superb piece of information
that really helps our community understand our budget
especially the year we've had on the year going forward
that this is really important and the fact that they make
it so understandable to the community big. Thank you to you
and your team for all the work that goes into this.
I will Echo that statement and we appreciate that. Um, and
I'm sure it will be something that we looked at often this
this uh,
this year
Um moving forward. Do we have anything people want to
request for future agendas now that we're kind of back back
in the swing of things.
items, um trustee spec and then trustee Blackman
Um, I'd like to hear back, um, and some of the things the
speakers talked about today. Um, I thought they brought up
some good points and um would love a follow-up on how we
can make sure we're encouraging Walkers and bikers at our
new high school. Um, this is the smallest the high school
will likely ever be and if the bike rack was full that is a
great sign, but also a sign we probably need to fix
something.
Thank you.
Thank you, and I'll second what trustee spec stated and in
addition. There are challenges. I think the speaker noted
it on pedestrian access to the site is very obscure and
Incredibly strange, so it would be great if we could look
at that. Um
in addition, I would appreciate it if we could actually
have
We've probably never done this but it'd be great if we
could have an update from the athletic departments, um for
our high schools like to get a better understanding about
how we're running those programs how we're offering things
safety information to students communication with parents
other things. I don't know if we have a really good grasp
of do we have policies that actually since we do have
Have 2 high schools. Now that ensure that we're actually
managing those pro programs in a manner that not that they
have to be the same program. But just something that gives
us a better idea that we're serving both students in a fair
and Equitable manner.
Can I also add the again what the speaker said but the
lights I just want to make sure we're being a good
neighbor, um over there. So making sure that someone is um
looking at the light situation and um if it is particularly
bright or
Well, we will certainly follow up regarding whether there
are specifically referring to the stadium and tennis court
lights or the lights surrounding the actual School itself.
Um
which is a much different conversation to have
Absolutely. I mean we we need to balance safety, but I just
want to make sure that you know, we take a look at it and
have made a
a decision, you know about it.
Trustee Blackman. I didn't want to forget we had a really
great presentation on AI but it brought up something that
made me realize that if we are incorporating new programs
in the district, it would be great. If we came back and
sort of have a very thorough discussion about how we
providing training so that when a student or a teacher are
basically asked or need to use a program or a platform
whether it's AI or something else that they actually have
the training because things are changing so quickly. I look
at our Equity policy. We may have students going into some
courses like
Whether it's at the middle school or the high school involve
other programs or platforms beyond the norm that they would
use for a course, but if we haven't provided them the
training to use those programs and platforms it puts them
in an incredible desiccate deficit. Sorry compared to other
students who may have for whatever reason their own
personal lives come in contact with those platforms and be
ahead of the others in class. So I know we talked about AI
but also from the other point of view what platforms and
programs we're using if we could get a grasp of that and
ensure that we're not throwing things out at our students.
So if that's something we bring back to the board, that
would be very helpful if it's something we asked schools.
Just something to make sure that we're on the same page.
Thank you.
Okay, and I we can follow up on getting certain things on
agendas when we need to um 1 thing I would like everyone to
kind of note on the annual governance calendar as we're
starting is it does we do have listed all of our various
resolutions?
um
for the year, so maybe your homework before your next
1-on-1 is to like look that over make sure I know last year
there was a couple times that we felt like we missed
certain things. So let's if we can kind of look at that at
the beginning of the year. Um, so that we can make sure
that we're timely each month, um and getting those
those resolutions kind of
um ready to go.
Um, I think we've we've done a I mean there's so always so
many things we could do, but I think we've we've done a
good job of of capturing a lot of the
Important key things um throughout the year, but I want to
make sure that everybody has a chance to look at that over
the before the next meeting.
Trustee spec another calendar item. Um, the superintendent
Council meetings. I believe we only went through the
spring. So, um, I don't know if there's going to be dates
for the fall and if you want to have a Siege pick 1 to
attend
Yes, we begin in septembar. So if if the trustees would
like to um
Choose which month they would like to attend or you can
send me an email and I can say hey, we already have 1 or 2.
I mean up to 2 can attend. So can you remind me what it's
like, I think it's Friday. It's usually the second Friday
of the month depending on if there is a holiday.
Vacation and it'll start in septembar. Yes.
The first 1 is uh, september 13th. Well, I'll be glad to do
is send out the schedule for you and we'll put in a Google
doc. Uh, and then you can just put your name next to it and
know that no more than 2 can attend.
That would be great.
Thank you.
All righty, um that I think that brings us to trustee or
reports.
Um, yeah the great start of school. I um, I went to Murray
Elementary this morning. So welcome the kids. Um, they were
very excited and I appreciate the Murray Community
welcoming me. So my purple on from this morning, um, and uh
also great to see some of the construction going on school.
But um, ultimately the kids were really excited and the
parents, uh, lots of parents there walking their kids. Um,
and so just happy to start the school year again,
trustee Blackman
Hi, um.
Want to welcome everybody back to schools. It was an
awesome first day. I did spend my morning at Emerald. Um, I
know we had a lot of the community members there and media.
I avoided the media. I know you had that under control. Um,
it was wonderful talking to some of the community members
are very excited. The kids looked all happy the traffic was
a little crazy, but I want to say it was a really 1 of the
you put it down as your best day error after so many years
and seeing how happy the community was and how smoothly
that beginning of the day went into all the staff that made
opening our schools possible. Just want to thank you. It's
a lot of that hidden work that you do that makes things
work so well for our district and kudos to you for making
it go so well today. Um, I will point out 1 thing and 1
requests that came up that was probably um,
Very vocal from a lot of the students is we don't have
enough dining seating at the school.
It was 1 of the things that became dining seating at the
school. It became abundantly clear that students did not
have enough seating in the dining and may just be the way
the dining is designed. But a lot of the students were
outside standing because there wasn't enough seating for
them. So if we could address that that would be wonderful.
Even if it's outside. Just they need more seating. Thank
you.
trustee cool
Yeah, so I just want to thank staff and all the teachers
and everyone out there that made today went as smoothly as
it did. Thank you.
Yes, and just reiterate that um, I know a lot went on
behind the scenes over the summer and the last few weeks in
particular. Um
I unfortunately was not able to be anywhere this morning.
Um other than getting my own kids draw kid kid kid kid
dropped off at school the first time I only had 1 in a very
long time here. Um and just
1 of the things I do love in working in education myself is
kind of the cyclical nature. There's always that first day
excitement. There's there's there's just something fun
about the first day of school and the new excitement and so
appreciating everything that went into planning over the
summer and all of those things. Um, and to to have the kids
back in the classroom.
Um, and so I think I know our facilities. I think that's
coming next meeting. I look forward to hearing all the
updates there. I know a lot of work has gone on over the
summer and it's really noticeable as I've walked by and
through campuses in the last few weeks. Um, so thank you to
all of you that have made that happen, um and to all of our
teachers for being here and welcoming. Um, oh actually 1
other thing I was able to welcome all of our new teachers
at that the new teacher. Um,
Orientation, um and that was good to see that new
excitement and and lots of people kind of working together
and and that new excitement. So it's always great to bring
new people on.
Um and glad they chose to work in Dublin.
Absolutely, uh, like the last couple years in september our
maintenance and operations will come and do a full report
on the amazing work that was completed this summer, uh,
keoki highlighted the work that the IT department has done.
Um, I'm very appreciative of the work that HR has did with
the hiring, uh, amazing job there certainly in ed services
with the onboarding and the PD that took place. Uh, it
really takes the entire organization to be ready for the
first day of school, uh, great job by our leadership at all
of our school sites, uh, and then of course, uh, our
teachers were ready to receive our students and they did an
amazing job, um on the first day of school, I was able to
visit and spend most of my time at Emerald because of all
the media, uh interviews,
But um, it was great to just um see This Promise fulfilled
to the community with a just a outstanding beautiful
facility. So I appreciate the bond facilities really
working hard to getting that uh completed. Uh, also spend
time at Wells at uh, Conwood Creek in Amador. Uh, I did not
see 1 single student in the office today who did not have a
schedule or is waiting for a schedule change or um was um,
missing their family, uh, uh the young ones so just a
tribute to the entire organization being ready on the first
day of school. So, thank you to all
all all righty, and that is
I'm not sure what our evaluation is, but I think we're
short and sweet. So everyone can get home and get some good
sleep for another busy week. There is no tired like the
first week back at school tired for everyone. So be gentle
with your children. They are very tired be gentle with
their teachers.
um
So yeah, otherwise, I will take a motion to adjourn.
I'll move that we adjourn I'll second.
um Trust
What?
Oh, sorry, trustee peswani. Hi everyone else. Hi. Hi. Hi.